Angular 4 - Notes
====================


This repository is notes of my angular 4 journey. I couldn't switched to ng2. Now I decided to give a shot and getting course about ng4. I will write everthing that I learn, Maybe this repository guide you too.

Farewell my friend.


The Basics
-----------------


### Installation

To develop some applications we need to install node.js first. If you didn't know node.js, please check it before ng4. We will use angular cli. Angular cli will help us creating stuff. Its very useful tool.

```
npm i @angular/cli -g
```

We should install `@angular/cli` with global parameter. This parameter will use global node_modules folder rather than local one.

Now we can use `ng` command in terminal.


### Creating project

To create project we will use `ng` command. Try to type `ng` in terminal if you get error then you failed `Installation` step. Please go there and make sure you did this steps right.

ng command has some more arguments too. We will come to that but rightnow we just have to create a project so we should use `new` argument.

This argument will create a new project structure in current working directory. But we should give some project name to proceed. I will name the project as "my-first-app"

```
ng new my-first-app
```

After using this command in terminal some files will generated by `ng`. It will install necessary packages via npm. Wait until installation is done.


### Serving project

We just create a new project. Proceed to `my-first-app` folder. Use `serve` command of `ng`. It will do packaging stuff and create a http server.

```
cd my-first-app
ng serve
```

In terminal output, there should be a url address. If you can't figure the address then with `--port xxx` parameter, you can change port number to whatever you want.

```
ng serve --port 8080
```

Typescript compiled and Webpack packed your application.

Now try to access to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080)


### Investigating created project

> Before going deeper make sure you opened the project with an IDE software. I recommend Visual Studio Code or WebStorm..

In project folder we can see `e2e` folder, `src` folder, and some files. `e2e` folder contains end to end testing stuff. We will check it after. All our project source  stuff are in `src` folder. Other files contains information about configurations, required packages etc. We will check them when we need.

Inside of `src` folder there are multiple files. The most important file in this folder is `index.html` file. This file is the highest point of our project. If you open it you will see something like this.

```html
<!doctype html>
<html>
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <title>MyFirstApp</title>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <link rel="icon" type="image/x-icon" href="favicon.ico">
</head>
<body>
    <app-root>Loading...</app-root>
</body>
</html>
```

In side of body element we have special tag which aren't in html standard. Its `app-root` element.

If you check `app` folder. Go dive into `app.component.ts` file. 

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent {
}
```

As you can see there is some property `selector` is setted to `app-root`. In angular components will bind to element that given as `selector`. Selector is kinda like css element selector. If you use `name` then you will select `tag`, if you use `.name` then you will select `class`, if you use `[name]` you will select `property`.

`templateUrl` property routes component's template location. You can use `template` property too if you don't want to create html file.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
    <b>hi</b>
  `,
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent {
}
```

`styleUrls` property shows us component's css file location. You can use `styles` too if you don't want to create css file. Difference between `template` and `styles`, styles is expecting an array of string, not directly string.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
    <b>hi</b>
  `,
  styles: [
      `b {
          color: red;
      }`
  ]
})
export class AppComponent {
}
```

`app.component.spec.ts` file contains information about tests. We will ignore it just for now. 

In angular projects works under modules. These modules look like `java packages` or `c# namespaces`. Your components defined in a module. `app.module.ts` file contains our main module. 

```ts
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms';
import { HttpModule } from '@angular/http';

import { AppComponent } from './app.component';

@NgModule({
  declarations: [
    AppComponent
  ],
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    FormsModule,
    HttpModule
  ],
  providers: [],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

All components that using in this project should declared in this file. If we don't declare it, angular couldn't find component that we want to use. 

Rightnow I won't explain other files that we didn't check. We will come to them too.

> Before going deeper I recommend to learn typescript. If you don't have a clue about it please check it.


### Creating a new component

To create new component; first create a folder inside of `./src/app/` folder. We name it `server`.

Inside of this folder create a file that called `server.component.ts`. Also you may create `server.component.html` too.

In server.component.ts;

```ts
export class ServerComponent {

}
```

We created a class that named `ServerComponent`. This class should exported out. We can't use if we didn't export it. we still have to do some stuff. We have to create a `decorator` that decorates this class is a `Component`. So lets do it?

```ts
@Component({

})
export class ServerComponent {

}
```

But it won't compile. We have to import something.. `Component` decorator is defined in `@angular/core` package. We can import it from this package by like this.

```ts
import {Component} from '@angular/core';

@Component({

})
export class ServerComponent {

}
```

Now we created a component that angular could use. But still it is invalid. Because it's like untitled subject. It just there but no one could call it. So we have to declare some `selector`.

```ts
import {Component} from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-server'
})
export class ServerComponent {

}
```

`selector` is similiar to css selector. If you just put something in there like this `app-server`; it would look for `<app-server></app-server>`. If you put there `.app-server` then you get `<div class="app-server"></div>`. You can even use `[app-server]` to look for properties. (like `<div app-server></div>`).


